README.md, before:


# Code Test Weather App
### Description:  
An iOS code test - building an MVP for a weather app to enable people to pack appropriately when they going on holiday.  The company name, user story, acceptance ctiteria and checklist as supplied have intentionally been omitted.

### In short: 

* The App should summarise the forecast for the next week to enable people to pack appropriately
* The test is bound to 8 hours work (starting 12:50 8/5/2017)
* Should use openweathermap.org api's
* Can use 3rd party libraries
* Should be implemented following TDD
* Should not be over engineered
* Should run in a simulator


## The following will probably read a bit like a blog (in reverse order) explaining my train of thought

### High level approach

* Look at OpenWeatherApi, understand what is needed to get info (login e.t.c.), work out which endpoints we will need.
* Sketch out the user journey on a white board, mvp so this should be the simplest version of that journey.
* Sketch out the design (UI) 
* Design the networking stack
* Will we need a caching layer, where should this sit, what rules should it follow.
* Mix eggs and bake follow TDD (taste before and after).

### OpenWeatherApi

* Licence Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 (tldr: must provide attribution to OpenWeatherMap in app)
* API Key generated (live in 10 mins)
* API is well documented, https://openweathermap.org/api
* API appears to only be http (will have to generate create exception in app)
* API has a call for a week forcast with data points ever 3 hours. https://openweathermap.org/forecast5
* API does not have all data for all cities / times it seems.
    > If you do not see some of the parameters in your API respond it means that these weather phenomena are just not happened for the time of measurement for the city or location chosen. Only really measured or calculated data is displayed in API respond.
* API suggests using CityId.
* City id's avalible to download in a huge (30MB file) maybe preload this into the binary as a db?
* Also choosing a city will have to be more complicated than just a picker, there are alot of pickers.
* Temperature is Kelvin by default (pass parameter units=metric to get Celcius)
* There is multilingual support (default seems to be english though)

---

* Turns out the api isn't documented great and you can get 7 days of data from 16 day daily data endpoint with a free account
* Also caching data for a minimum of 10 minutes is recomended

### Network Stack

* Use Alamofire for easy model generation, error handling and abstraction
* Use a router model (as suggested by Alamofire)
* Lightweight service as possible that actually does the networking bit - the only bit that won't be covered by unit tests'
* A decision was taken not to objectify all the data from the API but only a simplified set of data for an MVP

### Notes on things that haven't been done

* weather property from the api is returned as an array and should thus be handeled as such.  The current implementation takes the first object (if it exists) this has been done in the essence of wanting to complete the big picture and get the overall task done.  Obviously in production this is not what you would do especially not without a conversation about it with the product fucntion first.  Obviously this lack of information will propagate up through the stack.

### Application Structure

At this point the network stack has been written and returns a forcast for an id in the network model.

* Following MVVM seems to be sensible, keeping all buisness logic in controllers, views as simple as possible (unit tests don't like view controllers)
* All data from the network model will be moved into viewmodels to keep the networking layer and the UI layer totally decoupled.
* We will need a simple on disk cache that caches request for 10 minutes.  This will be owned by the controller which will hit the cache service first then decide wether to hit the network service
* We will also need a city name / id service probably also coredata and packaged as a preloaded sqlite db.

### Milestone 1 

Showing, admitedly hardcoded, weather for greater london.  Error are still being propagated as far as the view.  Errors should be taken down a layer turned into ErrorViewModel objects and those should be propagated up to the screen.  Thinking back (to a couple of hours ago) that was what my somewhat misguided ViewError should have been.

### Cache + Core data

This is new Core data and in swift.  Quick learning curve just realised I've never used core data with persistentContainer's or in Swift.

Commit message:

Added a rather hacky picker view so that the application works

README.md, after:


# Code Test Weather App
### Description:  
An iOS code test - building an MVP for a weather app to enable people to pack appropriately when they going on holiday.  The company name, user story, acceptance ctiteria and checklist as supplied have intentionally been omitted.

### In short: 

* The App should summarise the forecast for the next week to enable people to pack appropriately
* The test is bound to 8 hours work (starting 12:50 8/5/2017)
* Should use openweathermap.org api's
* Can use 3rd party libraries
* Should be implemented following TDD
* Should not be over engineered
* Should run in a simulator


## The following will probably read a bit like a blog (in reverse order) explaining my train of thought

### High level approach

* Look at OpenWeatherApi, understand what is needed to get info (login e.t.c.), work out which endpoints we will need.
* Sketch out the user journey on a white board, mvp so this should be the simplest version of that journey.
* Sketch out the design (UI) 
* Design the networking stack
* Will we need a caching layer, where should this sit, what rules should it follow.
* Mix eggs and bake follow TDD (taste before and after).

### OpenWeatherApi

* Licence Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 (tldr: must provide attribution to OpenWeatherMap in app)
* API Key generated (live in 10 mins)
* API is well documented, https://openweathermap.org/api
* API appears to only be http (will have to generate create exception in app)
* API has a call for a week forcast with data points ever 3 hours. https://openweathermap.org/forecast5
* API does not have all data for all cities / times it seems.
    > If you do not see some of the parameters in your API respond it means that these weather phenomena are just not happened for the time of measurement for the city or location chosen. Only really measured or calculated data is displayed in API respond.
* API suggests using CityId.
* City id's avalible to download in a huge (30MB file) maybe preload this into the binary as a db?
* Also choosing a city will have to be more complicated than just a picker, there are alot of pickers.
* Temperature is Kelvin by default (pass parameter units=metric to get Celcius)
* There is multilingual support (default seems to be english though)

---

* Turns out the api isn't documented great and you can get 7 days of data from 16 day daily data endpoint with a free account
* Also caching data for a minimum of 10 minutes is recomended

### Network Stack

* Use Alamofire for easy model generation, error handling and abstraction
* Use a router model (as suggested by Alamofire)
* Lightweight service as possible that actually does the networking bit - the only bit that won't be covered by unit tests'
* A decision was taken not to objectify all the data from the API but only a simplified set of data for an MVP

### Notes on things that haven't been done

* weather property from the api is returned as an array and should thus be handeled as such.  The current implementation takes the first object (if it exists) this has been done in the essence of wanting to complete the big picture and get the overall task done.  Obviously in production this is not what you would do especially not without a conversation about it with the product fucntion first.  Obviously this lack of information will propagate up through the stack.

### Application Structure

At this point the network stack has been written and returns a forcast for an id in the network model.

* Following MVVM seems to be sensible, keeping all buisness logic in controllers, views as simple as possible (unit tests don't like view controllers)
* All data from the network model will be moved into viewmodels to keep the networking layer and the UI layer totally decoupled.
* We will need a simple on disk cache that caches request for 10 minutes.  This will be owned by the controller which will hit the cache service first then decide wether to hit the network service
* We will also need a city name / id service probably also coredata and packaged as a preloaded sqlite db.

### Milestone 1 

Showing, admitedly hardcoded, weather for greater london.  Error are still being propagated as far as the view.  Errors should be taken down a layer turned into ErrorViewModel objects and those should be propagated up to the screen.  Thinking back (to a couple of hours ago) that was what my somewhat misguided ViewError should have been.

### Cache + Core data

This is new Core data and in swift.  Quick learning curve just realised I've never used core data with persistentContainer's or in Swift.

### Time time time

In the interest of time the cache (and part of the controller missed out on unit tests) this decision was taken as there are already some unit test in the project but I deemed showing the use of core data and building a functioning app more useful.


Also In the interest of time a mechanism for choosing any city out I imagine 1000's is probably a days work.  In the spirit of an MVP I've decided to show a handful selectable via a picker.
